[OSDOCS-6488]: Adding troubleshooting docs for hosted control planes (#63373)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/hosted-control-planes-troubleshooting.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * hosted_control_planes/hcp-managing.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="hosted-control-planes-troubleshooting_{context}"]
= Troubleshooting hosted control planes

When you need to troubleshoot an issue with hosted control plane clusters, you can gather information by running the `hypershift dump cluster` command. The command generates output for the management cluster and the hosted cluster.

The output for the management cluster contains the following content:

> * Cluster-scoped resources: These resources are node definitions of the management cluster.

Reviewer: The item kind of gets lost with the description. I'd consider playing with some other ways to present it to make it more scannable. For example, either by putting them into a table, or even just bolding the item. Like:

* **Cluster-scoped resources**: These resources are node definitions of the management cluster.

* The `hypershift-dump` compressed file: This file is useful if you need to share the content with other people.
* Namespaced resources: These resources include all of the objects from the relevant namespaces, such as config maps, services, events, and logs.
* Network logs: These logs include the OVN northbound and southbound databases and the status for each one.

> * HostedClusters: This level of output involves all of the resources inside of the hosted cluster.

Reviewer: Is "HostedClusters" an actual thing? If it's a resource, probably should be marked up in backticks

* Namespaced resources: These resources include all of the objects from the relevant namespaces, such as config maps, services, events, and logs.

Although the output does not contain any secret objects from the cluster, it can contain references to the names of secrets.

.Prerequisites

* You must have `cluster-admin` access to the management cluster.

* You need the `name` value for the `HostedCluster` resource and the namespace where the CR is deployed.

* You must have the `hcp` command line interface installed. For more information, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.8/html/clusters/cluster_mce_overview#hosted-install-cli[Installing the hosted control planes command line interface].

* You must have the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) installed.

* You must ensure that the `kubeconfig` file is loaded and is pointing to the management cluster.

.Procedure

* To gather output for troubleshooting, enter the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
CLUSTERNAME="samplecluster"
CLUSTERNS="clusters"

mkdir clusterDump-${CLUSTERNS}-${CLUSTERNAME}

> hypershift dump cluster \

Reviewer: These commands are missing the "$" prompt. Also, there should only be a single command in each code block, so these should be broken up into multiple code blocks.

Same for the other code blocks below

    --name ${CLUSTERNAME} \
    --namespace ${CLUSTERNS} \
    --dump-guest-cluster \
    --artifact-dir clusterDump-${CLUSTERNS}-${CLUSTERNAME}
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
2023-06-06T12:18:20+02:00   INFO    Archiving dump  {"command": "tar", "args": ["-cvzf", "hypershift-dump.tar.gz", "cluster-scoped-resources", "event-filter.html", "namespaces", "network_logs", "timestamp"]}
2023-06-06T12:18:21+02:00   INFO    Successfully archived dump  {"duration": "1.519376292s"}
----

> * To configure the command line interface so that it impersonates all of the queries against the management cluster by using a username or service account, enter the `hypershift dump cluster` command with the `--as` flag. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To configure the command-line interface so that it impersonates all of the queries against the management cluster by using a username or service account, enter the `hypershift dump cluster` command with the `--as` flag. 
```

+

> The service account must have enough permissions to query all of the objects from the namespaces, so the `cluster-admin` role is recommended to make sure you have enough permissions. The service account must be located or have permissions to query at least the `HostedControlPlane` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The service account must have enough permissions to query all of the objects from the namespaces, so the `cluster-admin` role is recommended to make sure you have enough permissions. The service account must be located in or have permissions to query the `HostedControlPlane` namespace.
```

Also just checking that the namespace is actually called `HostedControlPlane`? Usually OCP namesapces are lowercase and hyphenated (but that's not to say you can't name it this way)

Reviewer 2: This is not the name of the namespace itself, it's a reference for the user. When we say `HostedControlPlane` namespace we meant, the namespace  where a CustomResourceDefinition called `HostedControlPlane` will be placed, because it's different for each case.

Author: Thanks for responding here, @jparrill! Would it be more accurate to say something like this?
> The service account must have enough permissions to query all of the objects from the namespaces, so the `cluster-admin` role is recommended to make sure you have enough permissions. The service account must be located in or have permissions to query the namespace of the `HostedControlPlane` resource.

Reviewer 2: Yep, that works too :)

+

> If your username or service account does not have enough permissions, when you run the command, the output contains only the objects that you have permissions to access. During that process, you might see `forbidden` errors.

Reviewer: Just a suggestion to get rid of that extra comma. I think it's pretty well understood, but feel free to ignore!

```suggestion
If your username or service account does not have enough permissions, the output contains only the objects that you have permissions to access. During that process, you might see `forbidden` errors.
```

+

> ** To use impersonation by using a service account, enter the following command, replacing values as necessary:

Reviewer: Not critical, but I'd probably separate the "replace... " piece either into a separate sentence, or by using callouts.

+
[source,terminal]
----
CLUSTERNAME="samplecluster"
CLUSTERNS="clusters"
SA="samplesa"
SA_NAMESPACE="default"

mkdir clusterDump-${CLUSTERNS}-${CLUSTERNAME}
hypershift dump cluster \
    --name ${CLUSTERNAME} \
    --namespace ${CLUSTERNS} \
    --dump-guest-cluster \
    --as "system:serviceaccount:${SA_NAMESPACE}:${SA}" \
    --artifact-dir clusterDump-${CLUSTERNS}-${CLUSTERNAME}
----

** To use impersonation by using a username, enter the following command, replacing values as necessary:
+
[source,terminal]
----
CLUSTERNAME="samplecluster"
CLUSTERNS="clusters"
CLUSTERUSER="cloud-admin"

mkdir clusterDump-${CLUSTERNS}-${CLUSTERNAME}
hypershift dump cluster \
    --name ${CLUSTERNAME} \
    --namespace ${CLUSTERNS} \
    --dump-guest-cluster \
    --as "${CLUSTERUSER}" \
    --artifact-dir clusterDump-${CLUSTERNS}-${CLUSTERNAME}
----

> 

Reviewer: Not critical, but I'd recommend making sure that your editor has the settings to remove trailing whitespace / trailing newlines

The output for the hosted cluster contains the following content:

* Cluster-scoped resources: These resources include all of the cluster-wide objects, such as nodes and CRDs.
* Namespaced resources: These resources include all of the objects from the relevant namespaces, such as config maps, services, events, and logs.

Although the output does not contain any secret objects from the cluster, it can contain references to the names of secrets.

.Prerequisites

* You must have `cluster-admin` access to the management cluster.

* You need the `name` value for the `HostedCluster` resource and the namespace where the CR is deployed.

* You must have the `hcp` command line interface installed. For more information, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.8/html/clusters/cluster_mce_overview#hosted-install-cli[Installing the hosted control planes command line interface].

* You must have the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) installed.

* You must ensure that the `kubeconfig` file is loaded and is pointing to the management cluster.

> .Procedure

Reviewer 2: That's fine as you have it. Not any command needs the `oc` prefix

* To gather output for troubleshooting, enter the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ CLUSTERNAME="samplecluster"
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ CLUSTERNS="clusters"
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ mkdir clusterDump-${CLUSTERNS}-${CLUSTERNAME}
----
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ hypershift dump cluster \
    --name ${CLUSTERNAME} \
    --namespace ${CLUSTERNS} \
    --dump-guest-cluster \
    --artifact-dir clusterDump-${CLUSTERNS}-${CLUSTERNAME}
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
2023-06-06T12:18:20+02:00   INFO    Archiving dump  {"command": "tar", "args": ["-cvzf", "hypershift-dump.tar.gz", "cluster-scoped-resources", "event-filter.html", "namespaces", "network_logs", "timestamp"]}
2023-06-06T12:18:21+02:00   INFO    Successfully archived dump  {"duration": "1.519376292s"}
----

* To configure the command-line interface so that it impersonates all of the queries against the management cluster by using a username or service account, enter the `hypershift dump cluster` command with the `--as` flag. 
+

> The service account must have enough permissions to query all of the objects from the namespaces, so the `cluster-admin` role is recommended to make sure you have enough permissions. The service account must be located in or have permissions to query the `HostedControlPlane` namespace.

Author: @jparrill Can you confirm that the correct spelling and capitalization of the namespace is `HostedControlPlane`? Thanks!

Reviewer 2: Yes, with `HostedControlPlane` we are referring to a Hypershift CRD, so I think it's accurate.
